Sparse indexes (#4404)
timescale/docs: api/hypercore/alter_table.md

Enable the $COLUMNSTORE or change the $COLUMNSTORE settings for a $HYPERTABLE. The settings are applied on a per-chunk basis. You do not need to convert the entire $HYPERTABLE back to the $ROWSTORE before changing the settings. The new settings apply only to the chunks that have not yet been converted to $COLUMNSTORE, the existing chunks in the $COLUMNSTORE do not change. This means that chunks with different $COLUMNSTORE settings can co-exist in the same $HYPERTABLE.

> $TIMESCALE_DB calculates default $COLUMNSTORE settings for each chunk when it is created. These settings apply to each chunk, and not the entire hypertable. To explicitly disable the defaults, set to an empty string. To remove the current configuration and re-enable the defaults, call `ALTER TABLE <your_table_name> RESET (<columnstore_setting>);`. 

Reviewer: Set what to an empty string?

Author: clarified

| `column_name`                              |TEXT| -                                                    | ✖ | The name of the column to `orderby` or `segmentby`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

> |`timescaledb.compress_index`| TEXT | | ✖ | Configure the sparse indexes for compressed chunks. Requires setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby`. Supported index types include: <li> `bloom(<column_name>)`: a probabilistic index, effective for `=` filters. Cannot be applied to `timescaledb.compress_orderby` columns.</li> <li> `minmax(<column_name>)`: stores min/max values for each compressed chunk. Setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby` automatically creates an implicit min/max sparse index on the `orderby` column. </li> Define multiple indexes using a comma-separated list. Set to an empty string to avoid using sparse indexes and explicitly disable the default behavior. |

Reviewer 2: It would be good to mention that there can only be one index per column (no minmax and bloom on the same column)

Author: Done

);
```

| Name                                       | Type | Default                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> |--------------------------------------------|--|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer: A few fewer dashes please  :-).

| `table_name`                               |TEXT| -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | ✖ | The hypertable to enable columstore for.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

> | `timescaledb.enable_columnstore`           |BOOLEAN| `true`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | ✖ | Enable $COLUMNSTORE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `timescaledb.enable_columnstore`           |BOOLEAN| `true`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | ✖ | Set to `false` to disable $COLUMNSTORE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
```

| `timescaledb.compress_orderby`                      |TEXT| Descending order on the time column in `table_name`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | ✖| The order in which items are used in the $COLUMNSTORE. Specified in the same way as an `ORDER BY` clause in a `SELECT` query. Setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby` automatically creates an implicit min/max sparse index on the `orderby` column.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | `timescaledb.compress_segmentby`                    |TEXT| $TIMESCALE_DB looks at `pg_stats` and determines an appropriate column based on the data cardinality and distribution. If `pg_stats` is not available, $TIMESCALE_DB looks for an appropriate column from the existing indexes.                                                 | ✖| Set the list of columns used to segment data in the $COLUMNSTORE for `table`. An identifier representing the source of the data such as `device_id` or `tags_id` is usually a good candidate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `timescaledb.compress_segmentby`                    |TEXT|  $TIMESCALE_DB uses [`pg_stats`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/view-pg-stats.html) to look at the the data cardinality and distribution, then determines an appropriate column to segment by. If `pg_stats` is not available, $TIMESCALE_DB looks for an appropriate column from the existing indexes.                                                 | ✖| Set the list of columns used to segment data in the $COLUMNSTORE for `table`. An identifier representing the data source, such as `device_id` or `tags_id`, is usually a good candidate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| `column_name`                              |TEXT| -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | ✖ | The name of the column to `orderby` or `segmentby`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> |`timescaledb.compress_index`| TEXT | $TIMESCALE_DB evaluates the columns you already have indexed, checks which data types are a good fit for sparse indexing, then creates a sparse index as an optimization. | ✖ | Configure the sparse indexes for compressed chunks. Requires setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby`. Supported index types include: <li> `bloom(<column_name>)`: a probabilistic index, effective for `=` filters. Cannot be applied to `timescaledb.compress_orderby` columns.</li> <li> `minmax(<column_name>)`: stores min/max values for each compressed chunk. Setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby` automatically creates an implicit min/max sparse index on the `orderby` column. </li> Define multiple indexes using a comma-separated list. You can set only one index per column. Set to an empty string to avoid using sparse indexes and explicitly disable the default behavior. To remove the current sparse index configuration and re-enable default sparse index selection, call `ALTER TABLE your_table_name RESET (timescaledb.compress_index);`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`timescaledb.compress_index`| TEXT | $TIMESCALE_DB evaluates the columns that are already indexed, checks which data types are a good fit for sparse indexing, then creates a sparse index as an optimization. | ✖ | Configure the sparse indexes for compressed chunks. You must first set  `timescaledb.compress_orderby` before `compress_index`. Supported index types include: <li> `bloom(<column_name>)`: a probabilistic index, effective for `=` filters. Cannot be applied to `timescaledb.compress_orderby` columns.</li> <li> `minmax(<column_name>)`: stores min/max values for each compressed chunk. Setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby` automatically creates an implicit min/max sparse index on the `orderby` column. </li> Define multiple indexes using a comma-separated list. You can set only one index per column. Set to an empty string to avoid using sparse indexes and explicitly disable the default behavior. To remove the current sparse index configuration and re-enable default sparse index selection, call `ALTER TABLE your_table_name RESET (timescaledb.compress_index);`. |
```

| `interval`                                 |TEXT| -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | ✖ | Set to a multiple of the [chunk_time_interval][chunk_time_interval] for `table`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | `ALTER`                                    |TEXT|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ✖| Set a specific column in the columnstore to be NOT NULL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ALTER`                                    |TEXT|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ✖| Set a specific column in the columnstore to be `NOT NULL`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

> | `ADD CONSTRAINT`                           |TEXT|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ✖| Add UNIQUE constraints to data in the columnstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ADD CONSTRAINT`                           |TEXT|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ✖| Add `UNIQUE` constraints to data in the columnstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
```

| `timescaledb.compress_orderby`                      |TEXT| Descending order on the time column in `table_name`.                                                                                                                                     | ✖| The order in which items are used in the $COLUMNSTORE. Specified in the same way as an `ORDER BY` clause in a `SELECT` query. Setting `timescaledb.compress_orderby` automatically creates an implicit min/max sparse index on the `orderby` column.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | `timescaledb.compress_segmentby`                    |TEXT| No segmentation by column.                                                                                                                                                               | ✖| Set the list of columns used to segment data in the $COLUMNSTORE for `table`. An identifier representing the source of the data such as `device_id` or `tags_id` is usually a good candidate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect. default segmentby will look at pg_stats if available and determine an appropriate column based on the data cardinality and distribution. If there aren't any pg_stats, it tries to find an appropriate column from the existing indexes
